Update bot protection custom flow guide (#1182)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/custom-flows/bot-sign-up-protection.mdx

</Callout>

Clerk provides the ability to add a CAPTCHA widget to your sign-up flows to protect against bot sign-ups. This guide will show you how to add the CAPTCHA widget to your custom sign-up flow.

<Steps>

### Enable bot sign-up protection

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/attack-protection).
1. Go to **User & Authentication > Attack Protection** in the sidebar menu.
1. In the **Bot sign-up protection** section, enable the feature and choose the **CAPTCHA type** you want to use.

### Add the CAPTCHA widget to your custom sign-up form

To render the CAPTCHA widget in your custom sign-up form, you need to include a specific element in your DOM. Specifically, there should be a `<div id="clerk-captcha" />` element by the time you call `signUp.create()`. This element acts as a placeholder onto which the widget will be rendered.

If this element is not found, the SDK will transparently fall back to the **Invisible** widget in order to avoid breaking your sign-up flow. If this happens, you should see a relevant error in your browser's console.

> [!TIP]

> > The **Invisible** widget automatically blocks suspected bot traffic without user intervention. Therefore, it's strongly recommended that you ensure the `<div id="clerk-captcha" />` element exists in your DOM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The **Invisible** widget automatically blocks suspected bot traffic without offering users falsely detected as bots with an opportunity to prove otherwise. Therefore, it's strongly recommended that you ensure the `<div id="clerk-captcha" />` element exists in your DOM.
```

> > The **Invisible** widget automatically blocks suspected bot traffic without user intervention, and **is more prone to false positives**. Therefore, it's strongly recommended that you ensure the `<div id="clerk-captcha" />` element exists in your DOM.

Reviewer: It's not more prone to false positives, they are equally prone. It's just that if it hits a false positive, there's no way for you, as a user, to prove that you are a real user and not a bot, whereas with smart mode, you do have an opportunity to get past it if, if hits a false positive.

Author: resolved [6213012](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/pull/1182/commits/62130125427a74ffc6be72a50c362c9c7746c411)
